Israel's facing International
condemnation after killing six foreign
aid workers and their Palestinian driver
in central Gaza the United States
Israel's main Ally says it's heartbroken
and deeply troubled by the strike in der
Bala the aid workers were all from World
Central Kitchen which says they were
killed in a targeted Israeli strike
their Convoy was hit shortly after
leaving a warehous despite making the
Israeli military aware of their movement
Australian British polish and us
Canadian citizens are among the dead
several reporters covering the story for
us now in a moment we're going to hear
from our White House correspondent
Kimberly Haw in Washington DC and Hut
standing by in occupied East Jerusalem
first we're going to go live to taloom
who's in Rafa in southern Gaza tanic
talk to us about the reaction there to
the killing of the staff from World
Central
Kitchen yes uh absolutely Palestinians
here in the Gaza Strip can clearly see
this attack considered to be extremely
unjustifiable by the Israeli military as
there is a great sentiment of sadness
and grief among Palestinians regarding
the loss of uh the victims who have been
killed in one of the latest trikes that
targeted two uh vehicles for the world
Central Kitchen as this attack
considered to be a serious escalation
against humanitarian organizations that
are operating inside the territory and
systematically Palestinians see that uh
the Israeli forces have been attacking
uh the humanitarian convoys eight
Seekers and right now the humanitarian
organizations that are responsible for
Distributing aid for majority of gazans
who are in a very desperate need for and
earlier we have seen that the Israeli
military have denied the uh um the uh
Ona uh with the Ona flow of humanitarian
Aid to the northern part of the Gaza
Strip and today they have been attacking
the world Central Kitchen as a part of
the ongoing genocidal military campaign
we in fact have been seeing that the
Israeli that the World Central Kitchen
had been the main uh food provider for
the uh for the Gaza Strip as they have
been Distributing more than 42 million
meals till now since October uh and
their ongoing efforts to alleviate the
humanitarian situation and that's
completely contradictory to the Israeli
ongoing claims that they are
facilitating Aid deliveries to the areas
of the territory as they have been
upscaling their attacks against eight
Seekers and everyone also who is
responsible for delivering Aid right now
which had been one condemned not only
Palestinian but also by the
International Community T thank you very
much indeed T zoom in Rafa in southern
Gaza we're going to bring in ham salut
who's in occupied East Jerusalem how has
Israel been responding to all of
this well initially the Israeli Army
spokesperson Daniel hagat had given a
press conference saying quote that an
incident took place talking about the
death of these Aid workers following his
statement by saying there will be an
Israeli military investigation and probe
into all of this so the military did not
at first acknowledge responsibility but
later in the day the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did
acknowledge that this was in fact an
Israeli air strike on these vehicles for
the world Central Kitchen and he also
said quote it things like this happen in
a war let's take a listen to some of
those
remarks unfortunately in the last day
there was a tragic inent of an
unintended strike of our forces on
innocent people in the Gaza Strip this
happens in war we are checking this
thoroughly we are in touch with the
governments and we will do everything
for this not to happen
again the Israeli Army has said that the
military chief of staff hery halevi is
personally involved in this
investigation and that an initial probe
will be released to the public within a
couple of days but there are a lot of
questions the Israeli Army will need to
answer to and remember this is the first
time they've really acknowledged any
sort of unlawful killing but it has
never happened in the case of
Palestinians throughout the nearly 6
months of this war H thank you very much
indeed I want to go to our White House
correspondent Kimberly Hawker she's live
for us now from Washington DC as we were
mentioning before one of the victims I
understand holds a joint US Canadian
nationality is there anything from the
US so
far yeah National Security Council
spokesperson Adrian Watson reacting on X
former norly known as Twitter saying we
are heartbroken and deeply troubled that
the strike that killed the world Central
Kitchen Aid workers in Gaza humanitarian
Aid workers must be protected as they
deliver Aid that is desperately needed
and we urge Israel to swiftly
investigate what happened and we should
point out that this now that they have
suspended their operations there are
going to be ramifications that will have
devastating impacts for the Palestinians
that need their help because not only is
the world Central Kitchen suspending
their operations but also another
us-based charity known as the American
near East Refugee Aid they are also
freezing their operations so combined
they were delivering approximately 2
million meals a week so uh the concern
is about the impact of this and not only
that uh what this means moving forward
you have to remember that it's not just
relief workers that are being targeted
but also journalists so we're watching
very carefully to see what more the
administration might have to say there
is a press briefing that will be
happening at 17:30 GMT and we of course
will be there to follow up kimbery thank
you very much indeed we're going to be
checking in with you when that happens
of course kimy Hulett thank you